---
categories: work
date: 2013-04-24 00:02:29
imagecarousel: work-images-carousel3
imagequantity: 3
language: english
link: www.malts.com
tagline: Design, build, and maintenance for a parent site for over 20 brands
title: Malts
---

#### what is the opportunity?
Malts is one of Diageo's fastest growing brands and incorporates many sub-brands of single malt whiskies. To keep up with its continuous growth, Malts needed a site up to date, that showcased the wide range of its products.

#### what did we do?
We provide localised marketing activities for each of these brands, all managed and represented through this website, which:
* we designed
* we built
* we continue to maintain

We regularly deploy updates and new sections of the site dedicated to marketing campaigns and competitions. Such competitions often involve interactive content with images, video, and consumer contributions. One of the website's main focuses is on consumer data acquisition, for example the ‘Donalds Journey’ section, featuring videos and comment streams, or the ‘Share your Journey’ section, featuring an interactive Google map with an image gallery for each distillery which users can contribute to.

We also refactored the home page, and registration process to make it more user-friendly and increase user engagement and conversions. The site features a customised ‘Distillery Pass’ for all locales that logged-in users can generate and print out before taking to Malts Distilleries.

As well as the website, we created an accompanying Facebook application, from which users can link their Facebook accounts to Malts.com.

As part of the service we provide to Diageo, we use various technologies to leverage as many sources as possible capture data about the brands' consumers. We then provide regular reports on the analytics that we gather.

#### how did we do it?
* The website is built upon a fully customised Content Management System (CMS), EZ Publish
* It’s deployed to Diageo's dedicated 'NEO' web infrastructure platform
* The website is localised specifically for 18 markets
* Being such a large brand, we cooperate with agencies and organisations all over the world in order to maintain the website

#### our results
Malts.com has over 25,000 active monthly visitors, and a consumer acquisition rate that peaks at 12,000 per month.